---
layout: post
description: The Agile Deployment Toolkit background philosophy
title: Background Philosophy
permalink: /backgroundphilosophy/
hide: true
---
#### BACKGROUND PHILOSOPHY

In another life, I was a consultant for a big IT outsourcing company used by the government for a lot of projects that they needed doing. The problem was the social disconnect. The users of the systems lived on a different planet to those of us building them. So, in order to be a consultant with conviction, I went to actually look, or, was led into looking by my intuitive self, to interact with the people that use the systems so that I could actually advise based on experience rather than assumption. Here's what I found:

1. The assumption is that people who rely on government systems don't have much to contribute. That's a very misled assumption if you actually mix with such ones you would find out that they know more than you and that your assumptions about which end of society is the arse end is just that, an assumption and it depends on your social orientation bias not on what it actually is. That was my first lesson which I relay here. 

2. Secondly, we are moving in to a technocracy and the problem is that the people I have worked with or consulted with directly were often technocratically disabled in the sense that they had no experience with technology which excludes them from the technology and therefore the technocracy. Most systems bolt on "accessibility" as an afterthought what I wanted to do is to build systems that had accessibility at their core and therefore lower the barrier to entry to the technology that is available. If you think about it, if you are elderly with visual impairments, or, disabled with mental impairments, or, difficulties with the English language, these are all problems that I could see in the big corporate systems that are available ordinarily within the community. So, what I wanted to do is build a system which enables the deployment of social applications, built by developers with the highest commitment to accessibility requirements, that can be deployed and redeployed easily. That is what the Agile Deployment Toolkit is about enabling or seeking to enable. It makes it possible to easily deploy simple social networks and other application types that can be used by people who find the regular technologies a bit unwieldy. I can't solve all problems and I have questions that need answered the same as anyone else does, but, ultimately, that is my finding and that is what I have worked on. Something that this toolkit could be used for might be for coordinating social projects. 

3. Built for local people and run by local people. Something else I found is that we have this huge global thing going on and we don't know who our neighbours are. If you have a problem with one of the big social networks it is next to impossible to get access to "support" because there's billions of users and so on. If you have hyper local applications they can be run by people who actually live in the same town as you and by doing that, you can have direct access to the techs that run your community site. You can also specialise your applications specifically for the needs of your local community.

4. The challenge was to build something useful without much money. Purity of motivation means that you do it for the love of it and not just for the money, so, this is not a big budget attempt here, in fact, there is hardly any budget at all, but, consider that that is what keeps it as pure as possible?

5. Another simple philosophy I learnt the hard way is that this is a team effort. Nobody wants to see some bloke at the top of the mountain whilst there are others who are at base camp and that is kind of what has happened with technology. There are people who are at the top of the technology mountain and pushing on further still, I was heading in that direction, but, I got pulled out of that path and had to descend back down to mix and help people who had no technical knowledge at all and that is what you learn, if we are going to become a technocracy we do it together and all of us have a duty to make sure that we do it as a whole team and not as a few gung-ho intrepids. So, what I wanted to do is use some of my technocratic potential to build software that has the potential to include those who were previously excluded. That is functioning as a team and until we do, we won't make it home (psychologically). You see, once God shows up, He makes it clear to you that your idea of who and who isn't important might not be the same as His idea of who is and who isn't important. That's a tough lesson. 

To sum up my learnt philisophy then, I want to build hyper local applications that can be repeatedly deployed, make those applications as good as possible by having the very best CMS based talent develop them with accessibility in mind and have a consistent process for deploying the same application multiple times, for example, for town A, town B, town C and so on. 
