---
layout: post
description: The Agile Deployment Toolkit Tutorials
title: Proposal
permalink: /proposal/
hide: true
category: agiledeploymenttoolkit
---

To make it very succinct, I have been working on a back of a fag packet, below the radar, project (as a volunteer) for almost 10 years. Something my late father told me from when he was on holiday in Lanzarote was about a local boy at the beach who all he had was a fishing line, but, he was hooking fish out of the water at a rate of knots, and, just along from him were these tourists with all the gear, fishing lines, nets obviously, loads of money, and they were catching nowt stuck on a path of endless frustration. So, the point is, I might not have the resources, we might not have the resources, but, if I/we can have an iota of talent it might make up for it. That said, I am not Superman (or if you are a Christian, Jesus) and so there are limits to what I can do and that is why I am writing this proposal. What I have seen and experienced, your experience might be different, is a vast reduction in the scale of the services that are available over the past 10 years. That's not some theory its bourne out by the actual reduction in services of which I have seen quite harmful effects on people. I want a troop of committed loyal ones who want to be involved in setting up social networking solutions with what might be the impossible objective of being more socially organised. Using technology we can improve accountability at all levels. I have done the system analysis based on real experience in the community and the objective at least is to go one better than big tech "social networking" and create "locally orientated use case tailored support networks". Its not the whole puzzle its not a magic solution but I think it can be part of an improvement.

For me, this is part technical (or very technical) and part social experiment. What do I mean by that. I noticed that anything that has a huge marketing presence its usually because its a substandard product. Maybe what I produce is substandard, I don't know, but, what I do know is that when I have been taken in by the marketing bumpf on a product it doesn't live up, as a rule to the impression that the advert leads you to believe. In other words, the job of marketing is to sell you on the upside and occlude the downside (and there always is a downside and that is why life is perpetually difficult). My claim is that we can get wise to this and understand that the best products sell through word of mouth and that is what I am going to rely in here because my budget for marketing is basically zero with my budget for development being not much more. In a way then, this project is like a challenge, "can I build something of good function without any real budget", or, "has the world become so fiscally dominated that it is impossible to do anything without the green light from the bursary?". Each man needs to ask himself, do I exist under the financial system, or, does the financial system exist under me. 

I have set up a demo (and it is only a demo) of what my software can do and am looking for interested ones who might want to partake of it and in so doing see its potential and see if it is something that can be taken forward as something coming up from the base of society rather than being enforced by the jackboot from above irrespective of whether it fits comfortably or not.  

Don't all rush at once, seriously, I don't want the what has been a "ripple" of interest so far to turn into a "tsunami" and so in the first instance I am looking for about 20 volunteers to put it throught its paces. And if it stands up to that and there is interest working out from there. This demo is a social networking oriented demo, but, it is possible that I might be willing to deploy blogging systems using this software so that people with something to say on issues that interest them can form groups of blogging communities. And so this demo is in no way a limit case of the type of applications that can be deployed. It does wear you down working under such austere conditions, but, you have to have the faith that if you keep putting one foot in front of the other, eventually, you will get somewhere, this is me putting my foot forward to take the next step.  

### REGISTER HERE IF YOU ARE INTERESTED:

To preliminarily register for my demo experiment go [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeRVSFZK4vopoboQo01PBd9SYPRj_OirwgEYwJ0f_AOA0V4ow/viewform)  
**(note, the recommendation is that you set up a brand new email address with a provider of your choice exclusively for use with this community)**   
  
  
Once your preliminary registation has been acccepted you will be able to register fully and once that registration is accepted, login at [Demo](https://demo.nuocial.org.uk)  

You always have to keep in mind what your end objective is and to not be too over ambitious. So, in the first case here, I am looking to put together a proof of concept website with a few tens of users or members that demonstrates that working as an amateur I have been able to produce something worthwhile. This toolkit is designed to create a structure scalable to any size but for it to do that it would need large scale buy in (and I am not talking about only financial buy in, I mean mindshare buy in also) from technically minded people. With a successful proof of concept under our belts it would be a strong position to be able to say, "why not expand beyond proof of concept" and produce something which might actually be a strong contribution to shoring up the social networking skeleton for vulnerable and excluded people. If you want your own local Twitter for people in your area which is as accessible as possible, we could build that also, this proof of concept is more like our own local Facebook but with an eye towards inclusion and safety, or, a blogging community could be built where teams of bloggers write materials of interest. What I have built here is a kind of "Infrastructure as Code" solution, I think its got potential but for it to reach that potential it needs to come out of skunkworks and into mainstream. Its worth asking yourself whether you prefer using corporate or local solutions for your community needs online. 
