---
layout: post
description: The Agile Deployment Toolkit Tutorials
title: Roadmap
permalink: /roadmap/
hide: true
category: agiledeploymenttoolkit
---

The Agile Deployment Toolkit is in beta and I have developed a proof of concept Joomla social networking application. Here are the steps that need to happen to make this project a success. It had the backing of the Slough Volunteer Centre (which shut due to austerity) and various charities in Slough who originally requested for me to build a system to help the vulnerable and disabled use computers more easily and safely because for such groups the major providers that we all know about were not very satisfactory, or, frankly safe, for inexperienced ones.  

So, these are the steps which I judge need to take place for this software to flourish. 

1. I need to deploy and run a small scale demo system which has a few tens of users on it and have them report back any issues such as performance issues and so on. These should be targetted individuals with a technical background who can see the potential in what I am trying to achieve here. Once the proof of concept website is up and running I will select people in my circle to join the community so that they can get a feel for what I am trying to achieve and use the demo for real. The demo site will be in no way a limit case to what can be achieved, interested ones can develop any application they choose, using the supported CMS systems.   

2. Once the proof of concept demo is a success the next step is to stress test it under heavier usage. What this would mean would be to have an "in house" team of at least hundreds to trial run the software as a full deployment. This "in house" team would need to understand that its a beta product and any difficulties would need to be worked through and that this would be a "demo" still and that it may or may not be online or functioning correctly at any particular time. This would extend the understanding of what I am trying to achieve here.   

3. Once the stress testing demo is a success, the idea would be to put a team of technical people who understand the toolkit and the application and begin to onboard people in a public setting who I believe will be able to see that this is a more thorough solution both in terms of accessibility and function than is currenly provided. There's a lot of parts to it and there needs to be a discussion about how exactly this would be done, but, a thorough understanding of the ADT would be required by the techies charged with making a go of it. Assuming that the trial run (for a particular postcode, say, SL0, or SL1, or SL2, or SL3 or some other postcode, then it depending on staffing a second post code in the town could be selected and have its network started up) by a different set of techies. It could be set up such that in effect there would be different "franchises" of techies running applications for each specific postcode area, say, SL1, SL2 and so on. There needs to be clear procedures for onboarding people to the community because there will be no such thing as an anonymous person on this network and so that is a major security improvement because the larger networks are full of bad actors hiding behind some made up login name that hides who they are. It would make sense for example to integrate with government systems and have to have a goverment ID before you can be a member.   

4. For the actual toolkit going forward, its important to understand that there's hundreds of applications which this toolkit can support and as such it takes a single developer (me) most probably about a month or maybe 2 months to integrate (and test) each application assuming that there's no unexpected incompatibilities. What this means is that for me to integrate all these applications (such as NextCloud) for example, it would take me hundreds of months, and I might never live to see it to the end or at least I'd be walking with a zimmer frame before it is completed, but, if you put a hundred developers with the right skills on it, you can have this toolkit support hundreds of applications within lets be very pessimistic (6 months). So, basically my point is, I can only take this so far and that is what I have done it then needs to be cast loose, so that others can take it forward. It is in beta it is tested as thoroughly as I can test it, but, it is the nature of this software, and particularly this software, that maintenance and issues reporting are essential to its good function. For example, when Debian 12 and Ubuntu 24:04 are released the toolkit will have to be updated to suport them in order to stay up to date. Similarly if a particular application has a new release, for example, I had to make some changes in order to support Joomla 4 over Joomla 3, then there will most likely need to be updates to stay current with the particular application and so, its an ongoing process and way too much for one developer if there were to be more than 4 CMS systems and other application types supported. Beyond that I would like to integrate Java and Java Servlets into this toolkit and possibly Tomcat as well. There's no reason why a product like Ruby couldn't be supported as well. Basically its not in my hands its in the hands of how many other developers are interested in taking it forward. There's all manner of PHP frameworks which could be supported as well and a battle hardened ADT I think would be quite a nifty way of deploying applications at scale.   
