---
layout: post
description: The Agile Deployment Toolkit background philosophy
title: Background Philosophy
permalink: /backgroundphilosophy/
hide: true
category: agiledeploymenttoolkit
---

In "another life", I was a consultant for a big IT outsourcing company used by the government for a lot of projects that they needed doing. The problem was the social disconnect. The users of the systems lived on a different planet to those of us building them. So, in order to be a "consultant with conviction", I went to actually look, or, was led into looking by my intuitive self, to genuinely and deeply interact with the people that are end users of the systems **as an end user** of the systems so that I could actually advise based on experience rather than assumption. The old saying would be, "see if the chef will eat his own cooking" and that is what I essentially have been forced through and I noticed that my high paid consultant peers were very slow on the uptake to eat their own cooking and go through the same process of impoverishment which I have found is actually very enlightening. Its very very interesting psychologically the difference in the way that a person is perceived based on the position that they have massaged their way into in society. Do you have less to say when you are poor than when you are rich, actually you have more to say, so why is there a propensity to "listen to the rich man" and to "not listen to the poor man" its because in the stereotyped idea of success the poor man can't have much worth listening to otherwise he would be the rich man and the irony of that is maybe he is. Its beyond comprehension that there might actually be higher ideals and more worthwhile pursuits than simply making money and judging that as what it means to be a success.  

Anyway, in my direct experience, here's some of what I found:

1. The assumption is that people who rely on government systems don't have much to contribute. That's a very misled and even arrogant assumption if you actually mix with such ones you would find out that they know more than you and that your assumptions about which end of society is the arse end is just that, an assumption, and, it depends on your social orientation bias not on what it actually is. That was my first lesson which I relay here. 

2. Secondly, we are moving into a technocracy and the problem is that the non technical people that I have worked with directly were often technologically disabled in the sense that they had no experience with technology which excludes them from the technology and therefore the technocracy. Most systems bolt on "accessibility" as an afterthought what I wanted to do is to build systems that have, or could have, accessibility at their core and therefore lower the barrier to entry to the technology that is available. If you think about it, if you are elderly with visual impairments, or, disabled with mental impairments, or, difficulties with the English language, these are all problems that I could see with highly complex systems. Someone with learning difficulties, or elderly, might not be able to use a complex social network, but, a very simple one with full accessibility features and simple design, they might be able to use and such a system would include them. So, what I wanted to do is build a system which enables the deployment of social applications, built by developers with the highest commitment to accessibility requirements, that can be deployed and redeployed easily. That is what the Agile Deployment Toolkit is about enabling or seeking to enable. It makes it possible to easily deploy simple social networks and other application types  such as blogging tools that can be used by people who find the regular technologies a bit unwieldy. I can't solve all problems and I have questions that need answered the same as anyone else does, but, ultimately, that is my finding and that is what I have (was asked to work on) and therefore have worked on with my support team as a volunteer. To make it very clear this is intended to be a grass roots or bottom up infrastructure enablement tool. Social inclusion requires acceptance of contributions from people irrespective of social status and this is my contribution. For more than 10 years I have had a burning desire to ultimately put together a blogging system where the voiceless elderly, the voiceless poor and  the voiceless disabled can write or say how they feel about things. Its one of life's tragedies that at death, lifetimes of experience are forgotten, maybe not for "that bloke" who you laud and cycophant around but for the anonymous irrelevants it is the case. Its not just the obvious heros that have something to say and those whose mouths lead their brains its the mailman who goes out to deliver the mail every day for 40 years, that in itself is stoic heroism. What if, what if, you are a regular Joe who has had non-ordinary experiences that would stagger the intellectual elite?, that would be worth hearing. 

3. Built for local people and run by local people. Something else I found is that we have this huge global thing going on and we don't know who our neighbours are. If you have a problem with one of the big social networks it is next to impossible to get access to "support" because there's billions of users and so on. If you have hyper local applications they can be run by people who actually live in the same town as you and by doing that, you can have direct access to the techs that run your community site. You can also specialise your applications specifically for the needs of your local community. More than that, in hyperlocal communities focussed on local issues you can vet who can join your network, thus considerably improving security. If you have networks where you have to be a local do join, then, you can focus on the immediate issues in your own community and that makes you stronger. In a social networking enviroment where everyone is vetted, it considerably improves the safety of any vulnerable people within that network. In fact, I would recommend that rather than calling it "social networking" in this case, I would call it "support networking" and this might be very important to all of us in the "no man is an island" or "we all need each other society". I have known of people who have had life devastating experiences online when they become more or less "online sitting ducks" and I wanted to do something about that by providing more controlled social networks. 

4. The challenge was to build something useful without much money. Purity of motivation means that you do it for the love of it and not just for the money, so, this is not a big budget attempt here, in fact, there is hardly any budget at all, but, consider that that is what keeps it as pure as possible?

5. Another simple philosophy I learnt the hard way is that this is a team effort. Nobody wants to see some bloke at the top of the mountain whilst there are others who are at base camp and that is kind of what has happened with technology. There are people who are at the top of the technology mountain and pushing on further still, I was heading in that direction, but, I got pulled out of that path and had to descend back down to mix and help people who had no technical knowledge at all and that is what you learn, if we are going to become a technocracy we do it together and all of us have a duty to make sure that we do it as a whole team and not as a few gung-ho intrepids. So, what I wanted to do is use some of my technology potential to build software that has the potential to include those who were previously excluded. That is functioning as a team and until we do, we won't make it home (psychologically). You see, once God shows up, He makes it clear to you that your idea of who and who isn't important might not be the same as His idea of who is and who isn't important. That's a tough lesson. 

6. On a grand scale, and, this is philosophical and practical, there are two ways to run governments, centralised and decentralised. We can all see that governments are struggling and its no wonder, they are only human still. The point of decentralisation (which is what this toolkit (and dare I say it Brexit)) are about is about redressing the power vacuum that monolithic centralied institutions leave at a local level. In other words, if you use a toolkit like this, or, something similar to organise locally that's as effective a way of governing as anything that is centralised into power titan control systems. In essence, there is a happy medium, kinda not UK, kinda not EU, but more like EUK and that involves hyper local projects and without wanting to undo the government in any way, I think we can all see that if there are tools which can help with local organisation that that is not only good for communities but it is also good for governments. If you do run your social networks locally, then, you have more capacity to monitor what is happening with it. The whole point is that there is no centralisation of anything here, what I have written as a toolkit is just a tool that can be used in the process of leveraging more local influence over the process of social organisation.  

7. Untapped power base. Maybe I am a freak case, but, have you ever considered that "none of us have all of the answers but, we all have some of them?". What this means is that we might be struggling because we just assumed that some sections of society have the answers (universities, schools, companies) and other sections don't, (the elderly, mental health patients and criminals). Is it beneath us to actually come down off our high horses like I have and make it so that you are open to what others have to say even if perhaps you assumed that you only had things to tell them and they didn't have anything to tell you? If you start including everyone then you find that everyone has something to add to the mix and if you think they don't you are not being a wholly person.

To sum up my learnt philosophy then, I want to build hyper local applications that can be repeatedly deployed, make those applications as good as possible by having the very best CMS based talent develop them with accessibility in mind and have a consistent process for deploying the same application multiple times, for example, for town A, town B, town C and so on. If my work meets your standards, I would encourage you to take the time to use it and perhaps even take the time to extend it. If you are a techie, I think its quite an interesting code base to work on and as I mentioned there's a very long list of PHP applications that it could be extended to support because at the moment it ony supports four, Joomla, Wordpress, Drupal and Moodle. I am also interested in extending the toolkit to supoort Java Servlets and maybe even Tomcat and maybe even Clustered Tomcat installations (using the database for session persistence). 
